# NYSE-Forecast
## by Victoria Bloomingdale

## Dataset
The dataset comes from Fundamentals.csv and Securities.csv files provided by Kaggle about historical financial data from S&P 500 companies. The Fundamentals file provides the fundamental financial data gathered from SEC 10K annual filings from 448 companies listed on the S&P 500 index. The Securities file provided the industry or sector information the companies are categorized under on the S&P 500 index. There are 1,711 rows with the following columns: TickerSymbol,	Years, Period Ending, Total Revenue, Cost of Goods Sold, 	 Sales, General and Admin., Research and Development, Other Operating Items, GICS Sector,	GICS Sub Industry, Gross Profit, Operating Income, Gross Margin, and Operating Margin.

## Objective
The goal of the project is to interpret the measures of central tendency and spread, analyze and forecast financial business metrics, and create visualizations of a business metric to generat a financial forecast model. For the summary statistics part of the project, I decided to compare the Health Care and Financials sectors. The second table in the spreadsheet file shows a dynamic P&L Statement, where users can pull up the statement for any of the listed companies. The third table shows a financial forecast model for Electronic Arts with three case scenarios: Strong, Base, and Weak.

## Summary Statistics Insight
When looking at the histograms for total revenue generated by the health care and financials sectors, both skew right. In other words, the mean is greater than the median for the two sectors. The mean for health care is $20 billion, while financials is slightly higher, at $21.4 billion. The median is also higher for financials at $10.2 billion compared to health care, at $7.5 billion. Based on the information, the financials sector has a higher total revenue average than the health care sector. When looking at the standard deviation, it is higher for health care sector, at $30.3 billion, compared to financials, at $27.9 billion. In other words, the spread is wider for the health care sector, with over 75% of the companies reporting total revenue that is less than the mean. The variability is higher in health care than in financials.
